---
layout   : post
category : datascience
tagline  : 
tags     : [BSD]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Source: [schoolofdata.org](http://schoolofdata.org/data-expeditions/guide-for-guides/)

## Defining roles

Now, here's the tricky part, you need to make sure that everyone on your team has a clearly defined role. We usually let people pick this themselves. This is important both so they know where they should start, but also so they know that being present is crucial to the success of the mission. In our offline expeditions, we tried to assign people to the following categories (see the character sheet for more details): - See more at: http://schoolofdata.org/data-expeditions/guide-for-guides/#sthash.FreKsPl1.dpuf

Storyteller
: People who are good at finding interesting angles to explore and producing outputs that really speak to the intended audience. Storytellers are particularly key in defining the question and in pulling together the final mission reports at the end.

Scout
:   Scouts hunt down data from across the web. They can be non-technical or technical, depending on how difficult it is to obtain data (whether it is easily downloadable or needs to be scraped etc).

Analyst
:   Analysts are the ones who crunch the data found by the scouts and test the hypotheses generated by the storytellers.

Engineers
:   Put together the final outputs with help of the group. Engineers are usually somewhere on the technical spectrum but they don't have to necessarily be coders, we've seen loads of great outputs from people who know how to use off-the-shelf tools.

Designers
:   Beautify the outputs and make sure the story really comes through the data. Note: a paper representation of how you would like to present your outputs is just as valid as a fully-fledged interactive graphic produced by a coder (sometimes it even serves as a precursor to an interactive).
