---
layout   : post
category : professional
tagline  : 
tags     : 
---
{% include JB/setup %}

## Search

- [indeed](http://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=R+Statistics&start=40)
- [r-users](http://www.r-users.com/)
- [OECD Taleo](https://oecd.taleo.net/careersection/ext/joblist.ftl)
- [econ-jobs](http://www.econ-jobs.com/)

## Openings

### Analyst/Statistician - Well-being and Labour Market Statistics(Job Number: 09902)

#### Description
 
The OECD’s mission – Better Policies for Better Lives – promotes policies that will improve the economic and social well-being of people around the world. It provides a unique forum in which governments work together to share experiences on what drives economic, social and environmental change, seeking solutions to common problems.  
 
Statistics play a key role in the OECD’s work and in informing a wide range of external stakeholders. The OECD Statistics Directorate (STD) provides statistics on a comparable basis to analysts and policy makers inside and outside the OECD. STD also develops international statistical standards, advances statistical methodology and co-ordinates statistical activities within the Organisation and with other international agencies. A key role for the STD in over the next few years is to contribute to the OECD Development Centre’s Multi-dimensional Country Reviews (MDCRs). The MDCRs were introduced by the Development Centre and contribute to the OECD strategy on Development, adopted at the 2012 OECD Meeting of the Council at Ministerial level. They are intended to be one of the most important analytical and policy tools in the OECD’s co-operation with developing countries. The Reviews - designed specifically for developing economies - bring together the combined expertise of the OECD Development Centre, the Economics Department and the Statistics Directorate.

We are looking for an experienced Analyst/Statistician with an excellent knowledge of the measurement of well-being and sound analytical skills to contribute to STD work on MDCRs in conjunction with staff from the OECD Development Centre and the Economics Department. The role would also involve contributing to STD work on the measurement of job quality, and further research on issues relating to the measurement of well-being. S/He will also contribute to the Directorate’s on-going work on labour market statistics. The selected person should have demonstrated experience in applying measurement frameworks to assess outcomes in a developing country context, a good understanding of the conceptual and measurement issues that are central to measuring well-being, and a sound understanding of how labour market outcomes fit within a well-being framework.
 
#### Main Responsibilities

Data analysis and assessment of literature on well-being in developing countries
:	- Compile and analyse data to assess well-being outcomes in developing countries.
	- Assess gaps in data and information availability and propose ways to address such gaps.
	- Review literature on the different measures of well-being and on the drivers of these outcomes.

Quantitative and Policy analysis
:	- Use socio-economic statistics, national and cross-national datasets, in the analysis of well-being outcomes at the national and sub-national level.
	- Use quantitative methods to undertake analysis of the drivers of well-being outcomes.
	- Identify gaps in the available data, and contribute to policy proposals and analysis to fill those gaps.

Drafting and liaison
:   - Contribute to the drafting of MDCR reports with particular responsibility for the sections on well-being.
	- Contribute to publications, reports and working papers on labour market outcomes, particularly relating to job quality.
	- Liaise and collaborate with other groups in the OECD, particularly the OECD Development Centre, and with international organisations, such as ILO, World Bank, foundations and academic networks.
	- Liaise with national statistical offices, national authorities and other data producers
	- Respond to internal and external requests for information. Present findings of the work at conferences, seminars and other events.

#### Ideal Candidate Profile

Academic Background
:   - An advanced university degree in economics, sociology, statistics or related discipline, with a solid quantitative focus.

Professional Background
:   - Three or more years’ of research and work experience in the measurement and analysis of one or more of the dimensions of well-being covered by the How's Life? framework.
	- Experience in applying analytical frameworks to assessing outcomes in a developing country context.
	- Good organisational skills, ability to work effectively on the basis of general instructions and with minimum supervision.
	- Excellent drafting skills and ability to prepare reports independently.

Tools
:	- Good knowledge of STATA or similar advanced statistical software.
	- Experience in analysing micro-level data.

Languages
:   - An excellent written and oral command of one of the two official languages of the OECD (English and French) and good knowledge, or willingness to learn, the other.
    - Ability to speak and write in Spanish would constitute an advantage.

Core Competencies
:   - Please refer to the full list of OECD Core Competencies and the level 3 indicators.

Contract Duration
:   - One year fixed-term appointment, with the possibility of renewal.
 
What the OECD offers
:   - Depending on level of experience, monthly salary starting at 5,400 EUR exempt of French income tax, plus allowances based on eligibility.

Please note, the appointment may be made at a lower grade based on the qualifications and professional experience of the selected applicant.

The OECD is an equal opportunity employer and welcomes the applications of all qualified candidates who are nationals of OECD member countries, irrespective of their racial or ethnic origin, opinions or beliefs, gender, sexual orientation, health or disabilities.

### Industry

Novartis Integrated Quantitative Sciences
:   URL: [http://www.r-users.com/jobs/intern-integrated-quantitative-sciences/](http://www.r-users.com/jobs/intern-integrated-quantitative-sciences/)  
    [Job search platform](http://www.novartis.com/careers/job-search/index.shtml)  
    Job IDs: 161931BR and 161524BR  
    A. Decision Support Tool: Under guidance, build a live real-world decision support tool for users.  Requirements: Facility with R/Shiny and Javascript; statistical or operational modeling.  Relational databases and Linux shell scripting are desirable. Must be thorough, committed to completion and willing to rapidly learn tools as needed.  
    B. Bayesian modeling tools with Stan: Create re-usable tools for the Bayesian modeling of pharmacometrics data that can integrate diverse data sources (including pre-clinical, in-silico model predictions, etc.). Using the latest Stan’s facilities (http://mc-stan.org) develop templates/functions for compartmental PK models and indirect response PK/PD models. Produce documentation in the form of a modeling report and a presentation. Requirements: Second or third year PhD student in (bio)statistics, machine learning, computer science, engineering or related discipline. Strong computing background, including R experience (ideally already familiar with Stan and/or C/C++). Familiarity with basic Bayesian inference and software.

Robert Bosch
:   Data Scientist and Data Mining Engineer  
    Engineering, Software Development  
    Date: 02/06/2015  
    Reference no.: US00023673  
    Nation: USA  
    Location: Palo Alto, CA  
    [link bosch-career](https://your.bosch-career.com/en/web/us/us/applying_us/jobsearch_9/-/cui/job/null/en/54747A8C2BC28F90E10080000A032126)

#### Tasks

- Translate business needs into technical solutions
- Develop and apply advanced statistical algorithms for analysis of large-scale, high-dimensional data across various Bosch business domains (automotive, healthcare, industrial).
- Collaborate with product management, marketing and engineering teams in business units to elicit & understand their requirements & challenges and develop potential solutions.
- Stay current with latest research and technology ideas; share knowledge by clearly articulating results and ideas through papers, presentations to research staff, management, and key decision makers.
- Contribute to Robert Bosch's patent portfolio.
- Programming with MapReduce.
- Review/test ETL code written by other's for critical feedback.
- Thorough and continuous documentation.
- Communication with various levels of management and technical staff.
- Some travel may be required.

#### Requirements

- Ph.D. in Computer Science, Statistics, or related fields with at least 1 year experience or M.S. with at least 3 years of non-academic work experience
- Strong background in machine learning, data mining
- Proven expertise in at least 2 of the following: generalized linear models, probabilistic graphical models, latent variable models, time-series model, real-time learning
- Strong programming experience in at least 1 of the following: Java, C++(STL), Python, Perl, and at least of the following: Matlab, R, SPSS, SAS, KNIME, RapidMiner
- Experience with ETL tasks
- Experience working with real-world large-scale, high-dimensional data sets
- Demonstrated ability to work both independently and within a team environment
- Expert-level knowledge (3+ years) of database systems (Oracle or SQL Server; Mongo, or other NoSQL experience is a plus)
- Hands-on experience with the Hadoop stack (MapReduce Programming Paradigm, HBase, Pig, Hive, Sqoop) and/or key-value store technologies such as Cassandra is a plus
- Experience with manufacturing data is a plus
- Strong analytical and problem solving skills and enthusiastic about learning new tools & technologies
- Excellent communication and documentation skills

### OECD

[Taleo Job Openings](https://oecd.taleo.net/careersection/ext/joblist.ftl?lang=en)

### United Nations

Statisitician, P3
:   Posting Title: Statistician, P3  
    Job Code Title: STATISTICIAN  
    Department/ Office: Department of Economic and Social Affairs  
    Duty Station: NEW YORK  
    Posting Period: 6 February 2015-7 April 2015      
    Job Opening number:  15-STT-DESA-39488-R-NEW YORK (X)  
    [Link](https://inspira.un.org/psc/UNCAREERS/EMPLOYEE/HRMS/c/UN_CUSTOMIZATIONS.UN_JOB_DETAIL.GBL?Page=UN_JOB_DETAIL&Action=A&JobOpeningId=39488&)

## Applied

### Industry

BASF
:   Working area: Research & Development  
    Location: BASF Auxiliary Chemicals Co. Ltd., Shanghai  
    Working hours: Full-time  
    Contract Type: Permanent  
    Email: jobs@basf.com  
    [Link](http://www.programmingr.com/content/statistician-chemometrician-shanghai/)

### Consulting

BCG
:   Lead Knowledge Analyst, Statistical Analytics  
    Andrea Schustek, The Boston Consulting Group GmbH  
    Ludwigstraße 21  
    80539 Munich  
    [link stackoverflow](http://careers.stackoverflow.com/jobs/79761/lead-knowledge-analyst-f-m-statistical-the-boston-consulting-group?a=qKsyOsdQ8jm&searchTerm=r)

#### Responsibilities

- support our consultants to derive feasible insights and outcomes from data for our international clients
- expert and go-to person in the area of statistics
- evangelist of relevant analytical applications and tools by providing user-oriented trainings and expert support.
- discovery, extraction, and preparation of data using SQL and/or scripting languages
- selection, application, and evaluation of appropriate statistical modeling techniques
- presentation and communication of the outcomes to both a specialist and non-specialist audience
- research and techniques in the area of statistics, data mining, and predictive analytics

#### Skills and Requirements

- Master's degree or higher in statistics, applied mathematics, computer science or related areas
- strong background in statistical analysis and modeling, data mining, and predictive analytics
- several years of practical work experience
- highly familiar with both data management and data modeling principles as well as SQL
- experienced in the use of statistical tools such as SPSS, SAS or R, and data visualization software (especially Tableau)
- fluent in programming languages such as Java, C#, Python, or similar. Familiarity with a RDBMS such as MS SQL Server, Oracle, or Teradata is a plus
- outstanding analytical skills, statistics expertise, and strong communication skills in German and English
- self-initiative and dedication set you apart just as much as your affinity for mathematical-statistical and IT topics
- Teamwork skills, flexibility, willingness to travel, and strong motivation are among your key attributes
- keep a cool head even in phases with heavy workloads
